>> Melkey: I wanted to provide everyone
with all the tools that they would
need if they were to go back and
write go on their own.
We'll write HTTP Servers using Go,
we'll write Unit tests in Go.
So we'll write pretty intense
tests as a whole section of it.
We'll obviously learn how to connect and
write to our database.
We'll learn to connect and
write to our API, Stella Write and Go.
We'll also have handlers for
user interaction, so
imagine having users, right?
Imagine building an app and
actually having users,
we wanna give them a proper experience.
We're gonna show them we can handle their
information, that their information safe,
that it's able to communicate
through everything else in the app.
So we're definitely gonna have a core
part of how users will work in
a back-end setting.
And then for that, we'll have
a middleware, we'll create our routing.
I think middleware is actually
a really cool topic that shows how
we can inject something
into the request or
the response, and
how we can really use it to our advantage.
Who does this course benefit the most?
I think that's probably an important
question to ask, and it's really simple,
kind of going back to the objective
function of this course.
And it's anyone who's interested in
learning the Go program language.
And again, that's kind of it,
I can move on to the next slide, but
I'm not going to.
It's a very simple kind of mission
statement, if you think about it,
because it covers a lot of ground, right?
If you someone who's a junior engineer,
right?
Let's say you're very green, out of
school, you're just learning it, and
you maybe tinker around with JavaScript,
or TypeScript, or
Python, one of those first languages
that introduces people to programming.
I think Go is a great
first language to learn,
I truly think when we think about first
programming languages, Python, JavaScript,
are one, two, I don't see any reason
why Go is not in that conversation.
I actually would make the argument that
Go is probably better than the other two.
Because if you wanna make
a solid career as an engineer,
as a programmer, as a developer,
Go will expose more elements
of computer science than JavaScript and
Python, right?
It's just more intricacies about Go,
I'm not saying it's the lowest level
implementation because when you
go lower the barrier to entry for
a new person is kind of tougher, right?
You're not gonna really recommend someone
brand new, something like C right?
Or Rust, or maybe you would, but
I think a lot of times you do that,
there's a chance some people
may get discouraged, right?
Because programming is hard,
especially if you're new,
I don't know if you remember
the first time you wrote code,
you're probably I don't like,
what, I don't get how this works.
And so I think Go it's a very subtle way
to get introduced to programming, and
it introduces quote, unquote advanced
intermediate topics that Python and
JavaScript kind of abstract.
But it's also different
people's experience, so
let's say you're a mid-level engineer and
you've been mastering your tools,
which could be web dev, or
could be something else.
But you wanna make a transition, right?
You wanna go from front-end to back-end,
you sometimes pique your interest.
Go, again, is a great language to seek
out in that endeavor because I think
other languages may have different
criteria for use cases, right?
Maybe have different boiler
plates attached to them,
which makes everything
kind of overwhelming.
I think if you're first kind of interested
in back-end languages, and you see if
it's truly something for you, I think
Go is a great language that does that.
And then even for seniors,
even if you're a senior engineer and
you've been mastering Go for a long time.
I do hope there's going to
be things in this course
that either remind you about certain
topics of Go that maybe you've forgotten.
Or maybe you choose something new that you
didn't even think of implementing in your
own projects.
So I truly hope this covers a wide
array of people who want to learn Go,
or going out of their way to learn Go.
Or maybe have heard of it, have this kind
of itch, and then hopefully this course,
scratches that itch.
So finally with all that yapping,
we're gonna talk about,
what are we going to build?
So we are going to be building
a workout posting service.
In our project, we're going to give users
the ability to create accounts where
you're gonna have people that can sign up.
We'll talk about different
authentication methods, cuz I think
there's a few more popular ones I think
a lot of people may know of already.
And I think there's some that maybe
some individuals aren't aware of.
And I did a bit of a deep dive in
authentication methods myself, and this
section here where I talk about different
methods and which one we're going to use.
But yeah, we're gonna allow
our users to create workouts,
we're gonna give our users the ability
to edit their own workout,
that's a key,
distinguish the quick key part.
We don't want someone to create a workout
and someone else edit that workout,
that's obviously not something we want.
Users can delete their workouts.
Again, I wanna create a workout, I don't
want someone else to delete my workout.
We can retrieve workouts.
And all of that is a CRUD app, which is
create, read, update, delete, all right?
And on the topic of CRUD,
just for a second, I've noticed,
because on Twitter and
looking at other stuff online,
that maybe CRUD has this reputation
of being an older style of
developing apps, right?
CRUD apps are out-of-date compared
to RPC design applications,
and I just wanna say that is so
far from the truth.
So if for any moment,
you want to build a CRUD up, or
you are hesitant about building a CRUD up,
everything that
continues to be built is going to
implement and be a CRUD app, right?
Yes, there's aspects where
you can use RPC, right?
Something like gRPC is great for
microservices, but most apps that we use,
like Instagram, Twitter, whatever,
literally you can name it,
it's going to have CRUD aspects to it.
So really, do not focus on what the hot,
new, sexy thing is, right?
At the end of the day, the foundation
is gonna get you a lot further,
in my opinion, of how things are written.
And even at Twitch,
a lot of the work that's done,
all the applications are CRUD
apps at the end of the day.
So what is the tech stack, right?
The back-end is gonna be in Go,
if you were wondering what
the back-end was going to be at
this point, that's pretty funny.
Obviously, it's gonna be in Go,
that's it, that's the course, right?
You will hear a lot of
time people talk about Go,
people talk about the standard
library that comes with Go,
kind of the out of box solution when you
install Go, what you have right away.
A lot of purists will say that you
can write everything in Go with
no external libraries needed.
And I wanna say they are correct, you
don't need external libraries in Go, okay?
You can build everything from scratch,
it's kind of the standard library is so
rich that if you have a giant
import list in your file,
it could be a bit of that's
an interesting thing.
Cuz in Go, typically,
a lot of things are made internally
using the standard library.
So for something like routing,
you could, of course,
use the standard library, right?
It's actually not too
difficult to implement.
The reason why I chose to use an external
library, and I'll get to the reason
why she in particular, is because I
thought of in real-world aspects.
When someone is working in a team
on a project at a company,
there's gonna be instances we're gonna
be importing external libraries,
there's no other way around it, right?
They are there for a reason,
they're proven, they're battle-tested,
and they work.
And what they do is they
make your job easier, right?
Now, not all external libraries will do
that, some of them are very opinionated,
some of them may take away from the true
aspect of what you want to implement.
But for me, I want to bring
a routing library that I trusted,
that I've used before, and one that has
a really good rep, and that is Chi.
So we're gonna be using Chi for
our routing library, and
we're also gonna be bringing a lot
of other external libraries as well.
So not be doing a lot of those, but
I'm gonna introduce the libraries
that I think a lot of Go
developers use on a day-to-day and
continue to use on a day-to-day basis.
In our database, it's gonna be in
Postgres, I've already talked about this,
it's going to be spun up using Docker.
So we're gonna have a separate Docker
container that's gonna have our Postgres
database.
We're gonna be able to connect to
our Docker container that's gonna
have Postgres running, right?
And then we're gonna use, psql,
or whatever kind of UI for
database that you have to check out
what's happening in that database.
I think the cool part about this is we're
gonna be building everything from absolute
scratch, right?
So we're gonna start
with an empty directory,
I'm gonna create literally touch main.go,
to create the file, I'm gonna spin it up.
So there's no boilerplate, there's no
use this and then pull this in, and
there's all this coterie written,
and you're what does that do?
I personally have a bit of
a beef with that style, right?
If you wanna teach someone,
let's truly teach them,
let's do it all from scratch and
show them how things are done.
And so, I think maybe in some cases,
that's easier said than done, but in Go,
absolutely, we don't need anything to
demonstrate what we're gonna be doing.
So just having a computer,
the prerequisites I mentioned earlier,
will get us from nothing
to something at the end.